readme.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/nkonev/blog.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/nkonev/blog)

# Requirements

* JDK 8
* Docker 17.05.0-ce +
* docker-compose 1.16.0 +

# Start test environment

```bash
(cd docker; docker-compose up -d)
```

# Building with frontend and build docker image

There is highly recommends to shut down your application on 8080, although tests uses 8090, some of
them can fails, with websocket for example.
```bash
./mvnw -P frontend -P docker clean package
```

As you can see, there is switches via maven profiles.

This will run tests on PhantomJS.
See `.travis.yml` for Firefox and Chrome test examples

## Building without frontend and without webdriver tests
```bash
./mvnw clean package
```

## Build and start docker image for development
```bash
cd docker
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.nginx.yml -f docker-compose.dev.yml up -d --build
```

# Run
```bash
# By default
java -jar frontend/target/frontend-1.0-SNAPSHOT-exec.jar
# .. or with pre-generated content
java -Dliquibase.contexts=main,test -jar frontend/target/frontend-1.0-SNAPSHOT-exec.jar
```

Test user credentials can be found in `frontend/src/main/resources/liquibase/migration/bootstrap.sql`:74

# Development
## Changing version
```
./mvnw -DnewVersion=1.0.0 versions:set versions:commit
```

## Check for update maven dependency versions
```
./mvnw -DlogOutput=false -DprocessDependencyManagement=false versions:display-dependency-updates | less
./mvnw -DlogOutput=false versions:display-property-updates | less

./mvnw -DlogOutput=false versions:display-plugin-updates | less

```

## Frontend development

### Run webpack
```
cd frontend
npm run dev
```

### Run KarmaJS with PhantomJS browser (Chrome will be if not specified)
```
cd frontend
npm run unit
# or
npm run unit -- --browsers=Chrome
```

### Update js dependencies

https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-check-updates

```
ncu -u
rm package-lock.json
npm install
```

## Embedded documentation

Embedded documentation are available at `http://127.0.0.1:8080/docs/index.html`


## Request version info 

This will available after full package, e. g. after resource filtering of `git.template.json` and renaming result in `target/classes/static` dir to `git.json`

```
curl -i http://127.0.0.1:8080/git.json
```

# Running on Windows without docker.

First you should
install redis, postgres, Rabbit MQ 
and manually setup them (create database, schema user for Postgres, install web stomp plugin and create user for RabbitMQ).

Redis Windows x86 which works on my PC
http://bitsandpieces.it/redis-x86-32bit-builds-for-windows
2.8.2104 http://fratuz610.s3.amazonaws.com/upload/public/redis-builds/x86/redis-windows-x86-2.8.2104.zip

run
```
redis-server.exe --maxheap 8Mb
```


Next you should use localhost IP addresses and disable asciidoctor:
```
mvnw -P local -Dasciidoctor.skip=true clean test
```

# FAQ

Q: I suddenly get http 403 error in JUnit mockMvc tests.

A: Add `.with(csrf())` to MockMvcRequestBuilder chain

# Demo Run

```bash
cd docker
docker stack deploy --compose-file docker-compose.stack.yml BLOGSTACK
docker service scale BLOGSTACK_blog=4
docker service ls
docker stack rm BLOGSTACK
```

See logs of jars
```bash
docker service logs -f BLOGSTACK_blog
```

Remove failed
```bash
docker rm $(docker ps -aq -f name=BLOGSTACK_blog -f status=exited)
```

Commit message:

add node constraint database nodes

readme.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/nkonev/blog.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/nkonev/blog)

# Requirements

* JDK 8
* Docker 17.05.0-ce +
* docker-compose 1.16.0 +

# Start test environment

```bash
(cd docker; docker-compose up -d)
```

# Building with frontend and build docker image

There is highly recommends to shut down your application on 8080, although tests uses 8090, some of
them can fails, with websocket for example.
```bash
./mvnw -P frontend -P docker clean package
```

As you can see, there is switches via maven profiles.

This will run tests on PhantomJS.
See `.travis.yml` for Firefox and Chrome test examples

## Building without frontend and without webdriver tests
```bash
./mvnw clean package
```

## Build and start docker image for development
```bash
cd docker
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.nginx.yml -f docker-compose.dev.yml up -d --build
```

# Run
```bash
# By default
java -jar frontend/target/frontend-1.0-SNAPSHOT-exec.jar
# .. or with pre-generated content
java -Dliquibase.contexts=main,test -jar frontend/target/frontend-1.0-SNAPSHOT-exec.jar
```

Test user credentials can be found in `frontend/src/main/resources/liquibase/migration/bootstrap.sql`:74

# Development
## Changing version
```
./mvnw -DnewVersion=1.0.0 versions:set versions:commit
```

## Check for update maven dependency versions
```
./mvnw -DlogOutput=false -DprocessDependencyManagement=false versions:display-dependency-updates | less
./mvnw -DlogOutput=false versions:display-property-updates | less

./mvnw -DlogOutput=false versions:display-plugin-updates | less

```

## Frontend development

### Run webpack
```
cd frontend
npm run dev
```

### Run KarmaJS with PhantomJS browser (Chrome will be if not specified)
```
cd frontend
npm run unit
# or
npm run unit -- --browsers=Chrome
```

### Update js dependencies

https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-check-updates

```
ncu -u
rm package-lock.json
npm install
```

## Embedded documentation

Embedded documentation are available at `http://127.0.0.1:8080/docs/index.html`


## Request version info 

This will available after full package, e. g. after resource filtering of `git.template.json` and renaming result in `target/classes/static` dir to `git.json`

```
curl -i http://127.0.0.1:8080/git.json
```

# Running on Windows without docker.

First you should
install redis, postgres, Rabbit MQ 
and manually setup them (create database, schema user for Postgres, install web stomp plugin and create user for RabbitMQ).

Redis Windows x86 which works on my PC
http://bitsandpieces.it/redis-x86-32bit-builds-for-windows
2.8.2104 http://fratuz610.s3.amazonaws.com/upload/public/redis-builds/x86/redis-windows-x86-2.8.2104.zip

run
```
redis-server.exe --maxheap 8Mb
```


Next you should use localhost IP addresses and disable asciidoctor:
```
mvnw -P local -Dasciidoctor.skip=true clean test
```

# FAQ

Q: I suddenly get http 403 error in JUnit mockMvc tests.

A: Add `.with(csrf())` to MockMvcRequestBuilder chain

# Demo Run

First add constraint on database node (It can be manager) for prevent instantiate db containers on another nodes for prevent data loss:
```bash
# Run it on node which will be database
docker node update --label-add 'blog.server.role=db' $(docker node ls -q)

# check
docker node inspect -f '{{index .Spec.Labels "blog.server.role"}}' $(docker node ls -q)
```

Next you can 
```bash
cd docker
docker stack deploy --compose-file docker-compose.stack.yml BLOGSTACK
docker service scale BLOGSTACK_blog=4
docker service ls
docker stack rm BLOGSTACK
```

See postgres volume
```bash
docker volume inspect BLOGSTACK_postgresql_blog_dev_data_dir
```

See logs of jars
```bash
docker service logs -f BLOGSTACK_blog
```

Remove exited containers
```bash
docker rm $(docker ps -aq -f name=BLOGSTACK_blog -f status=exited)
```
